Add branded capitalization guide (#36846)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/writing_style_guide/index.md

- JavaScript (a trademark of Oracle Corporation, it should always be written as trademarked)
- Python, TypeScript, Django, and other programming languages and framework names

Certain tools or projects have their own branded capitalization. There are three types:

1. **Lowercase**: The name is always lowercase, such as "npm" or "webpack" (see an exception below).
2. **Uppercase**: The name is always uppercase, such as "UNIX", "GNOME", or "VIM".
3. **Mixed case**: The name has a mix of cases, such as "TypeScript", "macOS", or "jQuery".

Always use official capitalization since self-representation is more important than formal language rules. If you are unsure, check the official website or documentation.

The only exception is when the always-lowercase name is at the beginning of a sentence. In this case, use a sentence case. For example:

- Webpack is a module bundler you can install using npm.

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Author: > Under no occasion would you capitalize it

Even if it breaks the reading flow for our users? I think we should apply [one of the HTML’s design principles](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies) here:

> In case of conflict, consider users over authors over implementors over specifiers over theoretical purity.

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer: Yes, but we are breaking someone else's branding policy. If npm's own docs does this then so should we because they have the final right of interpretation over their brand. Capitalizing the brand name wrong is like spelling a word wrong—capitalization is invariant unless it is explicitly allowed.

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Author: > Yes, but we are breaking someone else's branding policy

I wouldn’t follow writing guidelines that would ask you to write brand names with bold-plaintext-math letters, like 𝐰𝐞𝐛𝐩𝐚𝐜𝐤 and 𝐧𝐩𝐦. Because it’s not accessible. There should be a line where we choose our readers’ experience over the brand guidelines.

I’m glad webpack acknowledged the case with the start of a sentence, and I would keep it for the rest of the lowercase brands that haven’t.

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer: Well you could argue that uppercase letters not at the beginning of the sentence disrupts this "sentence-beginning-finding" heuristic as much as a lowercase letter at the beginning sentence does.

Brands that use weird type faces usually allow you to use ASCII equivalents for many occasions. In this case I would vote that we use the right type face for the first time but ASCII equivalents later.

Is there any official docs (not a blog) that actually writes "Npm"?

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer 2: When I start a sentence with a word I need to write it all in lowercase, I try to create a way of writing the sentence so that the required lowercase letter is not the first letter of the sentence instead.

Maybe we can add something to the effect of: "We encourage changing word order to enable avoiding placing a term at the beginning of a sentence that must be lowercase, such as `npm` or case-sensitive encoded terms."

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer: I'm happy to go along with Estelle's suggestion, but I wouldn't want to endorse the usage of "Npm" under any case—it's certainly a misspelling and arguably much worse than "NPM".

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer 3: I'd be OK with NPM at the start of a sentence.

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer 4: FWIW Google style guide is to (1) use the product name capitalization if necessary, but (2) prefer to reword so it's not an issue (as Estelle says, and as I would also prefer, aka the cowards' way out): https://developers.google.com/style/product-names. I think this is the best policy.

> Even if it breaks the reading flow for our users? I think we should apply [one of the HTML’s design principles](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies) here:
>> In case of conflict, consider users over authors over implementors over specifiers over theoretical purity.

I don't think anyone is going to disagree with this principle, but it's not clear which is better for readers - if they always see npm then Npm looks totally weird.

> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.

Reviewer 5: I'm fine with starting a sentence like this:

>npm is a package manager

And if we really want to avoid it, no objections to this either, as suggested above:

>You can use npm to XYZ

- JavaScript (a trademark of Oracle Corporation, it should always be written as trademarked)
- Python, TypeScript, Django, and other programming languages and framework names

Some tool names and projects have their own branded capitalization rules. These might require names that are all lower case ("npm" or "webpack"), all upper case ("UNIX", "GNOME", "VIM"), or mixed case ("TypeScript", "macOS", or "jQuery").

> The branded capitalization from the official website or documentation should be always used, even at the start of a sentence. If you are uncomfortable with a sentence starting with a lowercase letter, we recommend rewording to avoid the problem. For example, you might say "You can use the npm package manager to..." instead of "npm allows you to...".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The branded capitalization from the official website or documentation should always be used, even at the start of a sentence. If you are uncomfortable with a sentence starting with a lowercase letter, we recommend rewording to avoid the problem. For example, you might say "You can use the npm package manager to..." instead of "npm allows you to...".
```

- JavaScript (a trademark of Oracle Corporation, it should always be written as trademarked)
- Python, TypeScript, Django, and other programming languages and framework names

> Certain tools or projects have their own branded capitalization. There are three types:
> 
> 1. **Lowercase**: The name is always lowercase, such as "npm" or "webpack" (see an exception below).
> 2. **Uppercase**: The name is always uppercase, such as "UNIX", "GNOME", or "VIM".
> 3. **Mixed case**: The name has a mix of cases, such as "TypeScript", "macOS", or "jQuery".
> 
> Always use official capitalization since self-representation is more important than formal language rules. If you are unsure, check the official website or documentation.
> 
> The only exception is when the always-lowercase name is at the beginning of a sentence. In this case, use a sentence case. For example:
> 
> - Webpack is a module bundler you can install using npm.
> - Npm can be used to install the webpack module bundler.
> 
> The reason for this exception is to help readers to find the beginning of sentences more easily.

Reviewer 3: Proposal based on discussion.

```suggestion
Some tool names and projects have their own branded capitalization rules, which might require all lower case ("npm" or "webpack"), all upper case ("UNIX", "GNOME", "VIM"), or mixed case ("TypeScript", "macOS", or "jQuery").
The branded capitalization from the official website or documentation should be used.

We recommend that you reword sentences to avoid having an always-lowercase name at the beginning of a sentence. For example, prefer a sentence such as "You can use the npm package manager to .." over one like "npm is a package manager".
```

Reviewer: Let's say it a bit more decisively:

> The branded capitalization from the official website or documentation should always be used, and you should never use different cases even when at the start of a sentence. If you are uncomfortable with a sentence starting with a lowercase letter, we recommend rewroding it, such as "You can use the npm package manager to..." instead of "npm allows you to..."

Reviewer 3: In the interest of moving this on, and because I don't have strong feelings either way, I'm merging a slightly modified version of @Josh-Cena comment ^^^ here and approving. 

```suggestion
Some tool names and projects have their own branded capitalization rules. These might require names that are all lower case ("npm" or "webpack"), all upper case ("UNIX", "GNOME", "VIM"), or mixed case ("TypeScript", "macOS", or "jQuery").

The branded capitalization from the official website or documentation should be always used, even at the start of a sentence. If you are uncomfortable with a sentence starting with a lowercase letter, we recommend rewording to avoid the problem. For example, you might say "You can use the npm package manager to..." instead of "npm allows you to...".
```
